I previously mentioned CloudFront in the clip on S3 as a way to combat latency.
Well, now we're going to take a closer look at CloudFront and how it works.
CloudFront is a content delivery network that allows you to
serve files globally with very fast connections.
CloudFront works seamlessly with S3, EC2, AWS load
balancers, and Route53 to serve your content from the
location closest to incoming requests.
CloudFront is probably the easiest of all the services to set up.
You start by creating a CloudFront distribution.
A distribution defines a set of content to be served from CloudFront.
For each distribution,
you will need to specify an original location for the content,
such as an S3 bucket.
Once the distribution has been created, a unique CloudFront URL will
be assigned to the distribution, and that is what you will use to
access the content. On this distribution, you can configure which HTTP
methods are allowed, which edge locations to use, and even configure
your own SSL certificate.
CloudFront pricing is fairly convoluted and differs depending on
which edge locations a user makes a request to.
For instance,
the first 10 TB of outgoing data in the United States is 8.5 cents per gigabyte.
Any requests for outgoing data from Asia,
however, is priced at 14 cents per gigabyte.
If your customer base is focused in a particular region,
it would make sense to choose which edge locations to use to keep
your costs down. If you want to get a taste of CloudFront, AWS is
currently offering 50 GB of data transfer out and 2 million requests per month for the first year.